---
title: Release TerrariumPI v 4.4.0
date: 2022-08-02 12:00:00 +0100
categories: [Website, News]
tags: [release, "4.4.0"]

image:
  path: /assets/img/streamers-clipart-celebration.webp
  src: /assets/img/streamers-clipart-celebration.webp
  alt: Celebration header image
---

## Release 4.4.0

This is release witch contains new hardware, code improvements and hopefully a bit speed improvement. Also there are translation updates and we have a new language Catalan. [Get the new version here](https://github.com/theyosh/TerrariumPI/releases/tag/4.4.0).

Or, go the [installation]({% link _tabs/install.md %}) page in order to install Terrarium PI version 4.

Here are some highlights of this release.

## I2C Multiplexer

TerrariumPI is tested with an [I2C multiplexer]({% link _hardware/i2c-multiplexer.md %}) in order to add more I2C buses to the Raspberry PI and the ability to add fixed address sensors/relays on different buses. And this support is just in the Raspberry PI OS. Just connect it to the first I2C bus and add a single line to the file `/boot/config`. [More can be found here]({% link _hardware/i2c-multiplexer.md %}).

## Hardware

There is now support for 2 new dimmers. The first dimmer is the [I2C 4 channel LED AC dimmer]({% link _hardware/i2c-4ch_dimmer.md %}). This is a dimmer that can control up to 4 electrical devices.

The other dimmer is the [LED-Warrior18]({% link _hardware/led-warrior18_dimmer.md %}) dimmer. This is a DC dimmer that can control 2 electrical devices.

And we should be able to support majority of the [AtlasScientific sensors]({% link _hardware/atlasscientific_sensor.md %}).

## Bug fixes

The following bugs are fixed:

- A nasty time table bug when using the climate mirror mode. This mostly happens when the difference in timezones was around 10-12 hours.
- Fixed BrightPI support.
- Try to improve the overall speed. It looks it is a bit faster, but it is also depending on the used hardware and Raspberry Pi version.
