---
title: Release TerrariumPI v 4.5.0
date: 2022-10-29 12:00:00 +0100
categories: [Website, News]
tags: [release, "4.5.0"]

image:
  path: /assets/img/streamers-clipart-celebration.webp
  src: /assets/img/streamers-clipart-celebration.webp
  alt: Celebration header image
---

## Release 4.5.0

With this new release we have upgraded the weather logic in order to support multiple versions of the OpenWeatherMap API. Fixed a nasty bug rotation if log file gets rather big. Multiple database updates and fixes in order to improve crash recovery. Also there are translation updates. [Get the new version here](https://github.com/theyosh/TerrariumPI/releases/tag/4.5.0).

Or, go the [installation]({% link _tabs/install.md %}) page in order to install Terrarium PI version 4.

Here are some highlights of this release.

## OpenWeatherMap API 3.0

OpenWeatherMap introduced the One Call API 3.0 which means that the old 2.5 version is not active available for new users. This means not that when you make an account at OpenWeatherMap you will only get the [free data](https://openweathermap.org/price). Which is lacking history data for climate mirroring. But when you add an API 3.0 subscription, which is still free, but needs some credit card info, you will get all the needed weather data again. [More information here]({% link _tabs/setup.md %}#setup).

For existing OpenWeatherMap users they can still use the 2.5 version of the API.

TerrariumPI will auto detect which version of the API you have and can use.

## Log rotation

When the log file is getting big, more then 100 MB, it could take to much time to rotate and compress that the TerrariumPI is forced to restart by the OS. Because there is no update within the 2 minutes system check. This has been fixed to do the log rotation in a new thread, which is not blocking the main engine thread anymore. Still it takes some time and CPU and disk time, but it should not cause a timeout which will trigger a restart.

## Database tuning

In order to speedup the software the database is not crash resistance. It can cover restarts, but power outages could corrupt the database. Now there is a tunning setting to change the way the database preforms. This will slow down the software a bit, but it should not get corrupted when there is a power outage. More information can be found [here]({% link _faq/tune_database.md %})

If the database does get corrupted, then there is now also a small script which can fix the database. Make sure that you have enough disk space left as there will be made a full copy of the database. Read [this FAQ]({% link _faq/malformed_database.md %}) how to fix.

## Bug fixes

The following bugs are fixed:

- Better check if notification services are enabled during startup.
- Fix daylight detection when main lights are disabled.
- Codacy suggested code updates.
